{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1053{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 ArialMT;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs40\lang9 TIAN19_1901_2020-02-14\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\f1\fs32 1. We can deal with harm in several ways. What is the best description of deterring harm? [Information Security Terminology]\par
\b0\i0 Best description of dettering harm is to \ul make the impact less severe\ulnone .\par
\b\i 2. Which of the following is an established security aspect? [Information Security Terminology]\par
\ul\b0\i0 Non-repudiation\ulnone  is an established security aspect. \par
\b\i 3. What is the benefit of using a Virtual Private Network? [Virtual Provate Networks]\par
\b0\i0 A benefit with a VPN is that it protects against \ul eavesdropping \ulnone / wiretapping / sniffing. \par

\pard\b\i 4. Which alternative would provide the best countermeasure against an on-line attack (active authentication) against a username and a password? [Passwords]\par
\par
\b0\i0 The best countermeasure against an online password attack would be \ul to use a strict limit on login failures\ulnone . \par
\par
\b\i 5. Which of the following sentences describe the term asset best from an information security perspective? [Information Security Terminology]\par
\b0\i0\par
The term "asset", in an information security perspectiv, is \ul anything that has a value to the organization\ulnone . \par
\par
\b\i 6. Where in the information security model could algorithms for securing a harddrive be placed? [Information Security Model]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Within the information security model, algorithms for securing a harddrive would be placed in \ul Computer Security\ulnone .\par
\par
\b\i 7. Access control is an essential aspect of information security. An operating system often manages the access control. Access control is often described using the terms: [Access Control]\par
\par
\ul\b0\i0 Subjects\ulnone  are the entities that can access objects (often the human user).\par
\par
\ul Objects\ulnone  are things on which an action can be performed such as, e.g., files, programs and hardware devices. \par
\par
There are many models for how to implement access control in practice, and one example is \ul Role-based\ulnone  access control. \par
\par
\b\i 8. Which of the below-mentioned protocol(s) is susceptible to sniffing? [Sniffing]\par
\b0\i0\par
website information (\ul HTTP\ulnone ) and mail information (\ul SMTP\ulnone ) is susceptible to sniffing attacks.\par
\par
\b\i 9. Select the outdated encryption algorithm among the acronyms below. [Cryptography]\par
\par
\b0\i0 The Data Encryption Standard (DES) is today considered insecure. It is replaced in most cases with the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).\par
\par
\b\i 10. According to the CIA Triad, which of the below-mentioned security aspects is not considered in the triad? [Information Security Terminology]\par
\par
\b0\i0 In the CIA-triad (Confidentiality, Integrity & Availability), \ul Authenticity\ulnone  is not considered.\par
\par
\b\i 11. _________ is a code injecting method used for attacking the database of a website. [Webattacks, SQL Injection]\par
\b0\i0\par
SQL injection attack.\par
\par
\b\i 12. Which of the following is not a wireless attack? [Information Security Attacks]\par
\par
\ul\b0\i0 Phising\ulnone  is not a wireless attack, it is an attack performed through mail communication. \par
\par
\b\i 13. Assume you encounter a search box on a web page that can take an input of 200 characters. You insert 300 characters and the remote system crashes. Usually, this type of behaviour is because of limited [Web Attacks]\par
\par
\ul\b0\i0 Local memory\par
\ulnone\par
\b\i 14. Imagine you are using an internet service provider (ISP) who you don\rquote t trust. What could you use to hide your browsing activity? [VPNs]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A \ul Virtual Private Network (VPN) \ulnone can be used if you don't trust your Internet Service Provider (ISP). \par
\par
\b\i 15. Describe what penetration testing is and what type of skills are required to perform such penetration testing. [General Information Security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Penentration testing is about finding bugs, errors, faults or flaws in an application. Penentration testing can have many aspects such as robustness, security, reliability and trust. When penentration testing is performed, a tester is looking actively for loop holes in a system. Penentration system is important because it ensures that a system is designed, patched and maintained correctly when it comes to security. If a system can be penetrated, it is not secure. The design might have to change or an update may have to be issue in order to make the system secure again. An engineer performing penentrating testing must have deep knowledge in to system, system design and be technically skilled in penentration techniques and methods to get into a system. Penentration testers could in some situations be called white hackers since often, a penentration tester uses the same tools and methods to compromise data or systems. When it comes to penentration testing, all kinds of methods are allowed. It is about penetrating the system using conventional or unconventional methods. Depending on the budget and level of pentesting, one may start with identified risks. \b\i\par
\par
16. Imagine that you have been appointed responsible for the implementation of information security in an\par
organization. Provide three key factors you deem necessary in order to succeed with such a task. Motivate your answer. [Information Security Plan, Guidance and Implementation]\par
\par
\b0\i0 First of all, I would need a security plan. A security plan should describe the current situation and map for improvements. A security should include: A policy, a current state, requirements, recommended controlls, accountability, time table and maintenance. \par
\par
Secondly, I would need a business continuity plan. This is a plan to ensure that the business can be maintained although a crisis. A business continuity plan can be divided into situations with 2 characteristics: catastrophic consequences or long duration. \par
\par
Thirdly, I would need an incident response plan which tells the staff how to deal with a security incident. An incident response planshould include: What constitutes an incident, identify who is responsible for taking charge of the situation, describe the plan of action. \b\i\par
\par
\b0\i0 Forth, as a basis and plan to be able to make the overall security plan, the business continuity plan and the incident response plan I would need a structured way to perform risk analysis. \par
\par
Risk analysis involves identification of assets, determination of vulnerabilites, estimation of likelyhood of exploitation, computation of expected loss, survey and selecttion of new controls, project savings. \par
\par
Risk analysis is part of the Risk assessment process which involves identifying risks, analysing risks and addressing risks. \b\i\par
\par
\b0\i0 In short: \par
Information security plan\par
- Policy\par
- Requirements\par
- Recommended Controls\par
- Current situation (state)\par
- Accountability\par
- Maintenance Plan\par
- Time table\par
Business continuity plan\par
- Catastrophic consequences\par
- Long duration\par
Incident reponse plan\par
- Identification of an incident\par
- Responsibility for a specific incident\par
- Description of the plan of action\par
Risk assessment process \par
- Risk identification\par
- Risk analysis\par
- Risk addressing\par
\par
Risk Analysis\par
- Identify assets\par
- Detemine vulnerabilities\par
- Estimate likelyhood of exploits\par
- Expected loss\par
- Survey new security controls \par
- Project saving\par
\b\i\par
17. Describe the concepts: Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). Also,\par
differentiate the concepts. [IDS & IPS]\par
\par
\b0\i0 An information Detection System (IDS) is a system which often uses 2 interface. One to monitor the network or system, one to communication with e.g. an alarm or another central. There are 2 types of IDSs, network-based (NIDS) and host-based (HIDS). An IDS can also be placed on different location, e.g. there are external IDSs and internal IDSs. An external IDSs is placed at the entry of a network or system and monitors all incoming traffic. An internal IDS is placed inside a subnetwork or system and is monitoring internal traffic. \par
\par
IDS can detect viruses based on hueristics (anomaly-based) or on pattern (signature-based). \par
\par
An IDS works in a proactive manner and is used to complement preventive security controls such as firewalls, access control and authentication. \par
\par
An IDS is analogous to a fire smoke detector but can trigger on many different things and be based on different things. \par
\par
If an IDS goes into protection mode and tries to isolate the intrutor and disable its access, the IDS is instead called IPS (Intrusion Protection System). An IPS can be configured to take many actions upon an events such as balancing loads, add hosts, blacklist or tune the network. Often an IDS and an IPS is configured to alarm a human who could determine on how to proceed with a specific event. \b\i\par
\b0\i0\par
\b\i 18. Explain the difference between stream cipher and block cipher. Also, give an example when each type of\par
cipher could be used. [Cryptography]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Stream and block ciphers are encryption algorithms characterizations and is about how the data is concealed. \par
Stream cipher is an encryption technique which involves encrypting individual bits or bytes. An advantage of stream cipher is that the encryption can be performed on any data that is ready to be transmitted since every bit is encrypted separately. However an advantage is that most encryption algorithms involves complex transformations. To do those transformations on one or a few bits at a time is expensive and time consuming. \par
\par
A block cipher takes a block of plaintext symbols and encrypts it. A block cipher algorithm peforms its encryption on a group of data all at once and is thus faster than stream cipher. Blocks for a block cipher algorithms are usually 64, 128, 256, 512 bits long, or more, to capitalize on economies of scale. If we want to encrypt something in a block, we must wait until all components of that block is ready to be transmitted, this is slow a clear disadvantage. Also, if an error occurs in one instance on encryption it affect the whole block instead of just hte bit/byte (error propagation). \b\i\par
\i0\par
\i 19. Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) is a common type of network attack. Give one applied example of a MITM. [Network Security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Most Man-in-the-Middle attacks are based of some sort of sniffing (wiretapping or eavesdropping). This could be using an unsecure protocol on a public WiFi meaning that the attacker could sit on the same network as you are, scanning the activity to your PC through a Sniffer (a program or device monitoring network traffic). If the user is authenticating against a certain website, an attacker could use a sniffing attack to attain that information (e.g. cookie data) in order to hijack the authenticated user session or perform a MitM-attack. If the attacker knows both the host and the server and technical details in the authentication process, they could use the authentication data sniffed at the host to authenticate to the server and also, importantly, disable the direct communication between the host and the server and instead replace this information with the new node (attacker himself). The user think that they are direectly communication with the server & the server thinks that they are directly communicating with the host because the messages between are legite but the the source addresses are replaced by the attacker. The payload could for example be obtained through a replay attack where the attacker records a message and replays it from a new IP address leveraging the same commands.\par
\par
Example of a MitM-attack (principle): \par
1. Alice send a message to Bob (Demanding key). \par
2. Mary intercepts Alice message and blocks it.\par
3. Mary send a message to Bob pretending to be Alice (Demending key)\par
4. Bob responds with his encryption key.\par
5. Mary switches this key to her onw key and send to Mary. \par
6. Alice uses the key (thinking it is Bobs) and send a message. \par
7. Mary decrypts (Using her own key), reads, modifies, reencrypt it (with Bobs key) and send it to Bob like nothing happened. \par
8. Bon thinks that the message is a secure communication with Alice. Alice think that it is a secure communication with Bob. Mary is an eavesdropper and a Man-in-the-Middle. \par
\par
A MitM-attack can be prevented using authentication or tamper-detection. Authentication can be done by using key exchange protocols or schemes such as the Diffie-Hellman key exchange. Tamper detection is mechanisms that detect is a message has been altered. \par
\par
 \b\par
\par
\i 20. Explain the concept of salt, and exemplify how it can be used. [Passwords - Cryptography]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A salt is a unique component used in e.g. one-way hash functions. It is often generated based on time or a random value. This value is joined (usually just added) with the password plaintext before hashing to acheive an even harder value to crack. A salt component makes the encryption of 2 exactly the same passwords unique. This fact is protecting against computing of a rainbow table to speed up guessing attacks. \b\par
\i\par
21. Authentication mechanisms can be divided into three categories. Describe these three categories. [Authentication]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Authentication can be performed with mechanisms that are based on wither what the user known, what the user has or what the user is. \par
\par
Examples of what the \ul user knows \ulnone are passwords and secret questions. This category is probably still the most used, passwords are used everywhere in the software industry. Problems include remembering the password, resettings a password, choosing a safe password, sharing the authentication. If infinite amount of guesses are allowed, all passwords can be brute forced, it is just a matter of time and resources. Passwords are attacked with dictionary guessing attacks and brute force attacks. \par
\par
Examples of what the \ul user has\ulnone  are different types of tokens such as keys, FIdM codes, pincodes, CVC number, credit cards. A security token can be static, dynamic, passive or active. An example of a dynamic token are the generated FIdM codes from e.g. Google Auth or Microsoft Auth. Examples of an active token are buss or ban cards holding a balance which is changing. A passive token can be an ID card, passport, drivers license. A static token can be a CVC code on the back of a credit card. \par
\par
Examples of what the \ul user is \ulnone are biometrics. There are many types of biomatrics such as: recognition of face, iris, retina, nose, ear, body shapes or fingerprint. Most of the biometric authentications are based on sampling to make the authentication fast enough. Problems include that sampling could be tricked with fabricated biometric. It is also a single point of failure which often should be avoided. There are also many ethical question arising on how to safely store and account for biometric since biomatric data is highly private and confidential to the users and something that most people not would be confortable in sharing publically. New type of threats and attacks arise but this category may dramatically take over authentication processes. \par
\par
A good practice in more secure systems are multi-factor authentication. Often 2-factor authentication are sufficient combining 2 different authentication methods. Preferably one of the factors should be "out-of-band" in case a system or application is compromised. This means that an application is authenticated with e.g. SMS instead of mail or a second password. \b\i\par
\par
22. Define the terms: vulnerability, threat, harm and security controls. Also, relate the terms to each other by giving an applied example. [Information Security Terminology]\par
\par
\b0\i0 An example is a pool with water placed inside a house. The floor of the house is highly sensitive to water and will take damage if water is flooded onto it. \par
\par
The harm in this example is the damaged floor in case of leaked water, the vulnerability is the crack in the pool wall which may transport water out of the pool, the threat is the water exploiting a crack in the pool wall. A security control could be to tighten the crack with ducktape to stop the waterflow. \par
\par
Harm is a negative consequence of a threat. It could be loss of service, loss of data, impacted reputation etc. \par
\par
Threat is a series of events that exploits vulnerabilities to potentially cause harm.\par
\par
A vulnerability is a set of conditions that may be exploited by a threat to cause harm. \par
\par
A security control is a mechanism to control a vulnerability in order to prevent a theat from becoming harm. \par
\b\i\par
23. Suggest and describe a technique by which a browser could detect and block clickjacking attacks. [Web Security - Clickjacking]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A clickjacking attack is when a user is tricked into performing an action which is not the intended. It could be performed by fooling a user into download malicious code or to dialog a user input to enter user credentials but instead the user is logging into an actual website. An example of clickjacking is a prompt box asking the user for consent, when a user hoover themouse over both yes and no, the answer [Yes] button is always under the mouse. This way, independent of where the user clicks, the prompt question or action will be accepted by the user. Since most browser has a lot of controll, going into the wrong site could be dangerous since many malicious threat may appear and clickjacking is one of the techniques to e.g. download malicious code. \par
\par
The basic protection against malicious content on a webpage are access control. Thus the best control against clickjacking and unwanted downloads are access control, this means for example that the browser or the OS is prompting the user for approval if a file is processed to be downloaded instead of relying the website prompt which could be manipulated into a clickjack. Access control accomplishes separation. To install programs an OS may require administrative privalege. A relevant measure to reduce the harm of a clickjacking attack would be to enforce the least privalege access control policy, include user training (do not go into susupicios sites, do not accept download, popups and other suspect content, links etc), and visibility. There are also controls for webpage owners, to e.g. ensure that the code on a page is good, clean, or suitable. \b\i\par
\par
24. Give an example of the use of logical separation for security in a computing environment. Also discuss the advantages and disadvantages of such an approach. [General Information Security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Separation is the basis of protection. Everybody or every module, files, probram, process etc should not be able to access every data in a system. It is important to separate users from users and users from computers. \par
In OSs, separation can be performed / occur thorugh the following ways: \par
\ul Physical separation\ulnone , where a process is divded into using different physical objects such as printers for different level of security or differnet network interface cards depending on the purpose. \par
\par
\ul Temporal separation\ulnone , by which processes having different security requirements are executed at diffrent times. This way, we can adjust how an error could be handled etc since we can deal all processes in the same way since they have already been processed in that manner. \par
\par
\ul Logical separation\ulnone , by which users operate under the illusion that no other process exist. An example of logical separation is when an OS constraints a program's accesses so that the program cannot access objects outside its permitted domain. An example of logical separation is the address space, where e.g. all processes starts on the address space 0 in virtual memory but phsycally they are in fact accessing and using different memory. \par
\par
Advatages of logical separation is flexibility. Disadvantage with logical separation is performance and memory overhead. \par
\par
\ul Cryptographic separation\ulnone , by which processes conceal their data and computations in such a way that they are unintelligable to outside processes. \par
\par
So ultimately, separation occurs by space (physical), time(temporal), access control(logically), or cryptography(cryptographic). \ul\b\i\par
\ulnone\par
25. Why should the directory of one user not be generally accessible to other users (not even for read-only access)? [Operating Systems Security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Because a principle of good and secure design is the other way around. We want to generally separate a user directory from being accessible to other user, but at the same time being able to provide sharing for that object. The the specific case shall always be sharing and the general case shall be separation. We either share all or nothing. We may also share an object but limit the access, this way access control can be implemented to control subjects accesses to objects, but again here, default shall be not to share. \b\i\par
\par
26. In the context of software security, such as OS security, eight design principles were formulated more than 40 years ago. Despite the relative age, they remain valid even today. Describe any four of these design principles. [General Information Security, Operating Systems Security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Simplicity of design (economy of mechanism: A simple design or mechanism will result in easier analysis and a more robust system with less flaws. \par
\par
Least privalege: Privalege shall only be given to those who really need it. That includes people who work in a project, not people who will do it or has done it. We want to limit the amount of privalege a certain user has. \par
\par
Open design: A design that is open build trust. That is because a lot of people will look on it, use it, test it and thus prove its reliability and security. A system that has open design tend to be more established and have better security enforced. \par
\par
Permission-based: The default condition in a system shall be denied access. This way, we are safe when creating new items or users and developing the system. It is much worth to elevate access instead of withdrawing access and repair already established damage. \par
\par
\par
There are eight principles of design which is generally accepted by the security industry: \par
\par
\ul Economy of Mechanism\ulnone\par
A solid but simple design makes it easier to implement more secure software. This is because the analysis of the design becomes easier and the design thus becomes more bulletproof. Less flaws will be introduced into the system. \par
\par
\ul Least Common Mechanism\ulnone\par
Shared objects is a potential channel for information flow, we avoid this by implementing either physical separation or logical separation or both. \par
\par
\ul Least Privalege\ulnone\par
The minimum amount of privalege should be given at an initial stage. A user shall not have access by default to anything. Instead access shall be requested for, and only be given to when there is a legite reason for it. For example, objects belonging to a project shall only be accessible to project members and noone else. It is a good practice to remove people that will be part of the project in the future and people who are no longer part of the project. \par
\par
\ul Separation of Privalege\ulnone\par
Access to onject should depend on more than one condition. In case if someone defeats the protection system, they will not have complete access. An object can be dependent on user authentication and a cryptographic key to be more secure. \par
\par
\ul Complete Mediation\par
\ulnone Access control must never be bypassed. All accesses shall be checked under all circumstances and conditions. Direct access and circumvented accesses must be implemented to be checked. The access control must be placed so that it can never be circumvented. \par
\par
\ul Simplicity of Use\par
\ulnone If a security control or design is not easy to use, individuals tend to go around it. That must not be the case for any security measures. Security measure must thus be easy to use and still secure. \par
\ul Open Design\par
\ulnone A system that is open will be looked upon by more people. Thus, the system will be more likely to show its flaws and have these updated. An open system is thus more secure in this manner, people will test and use the system to a larger extent and thus prove its reliability and correctness. RSA is an example of such a system. \par
\par
\par
\par
\b\i\par
}
 