{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1053{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 ArialMT;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs40\lang9 TIAN19_1901_2019-12-10\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\f1\fs32 1. Which of the following is an established security aspect? [Information security terminology]\par
\ul\b0\i0 Non-repudability \ulnone is an established security aspect. Example of other are Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability and Authentication. \par
\b\i 2. What is the benefit of using a Virtual Private Network? [VPNs]\par
\b0\i0 The benefit of using a Virtual Private Network is \ul protection against eavesdropping / Sniffing / Wiretapping\ulnone .\par
\par
\b\i 3. To create a digital signature, what is needed? [Digital Signatures]\par
\b0\i0\par
\b\i 4. Which of the following standards could be considered the go-to encryption standard of today? [Encryption]\par
\b0\i0 The go-to encryption standard today is the \ul Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).\par
\par

\pard\ulnone\b\i 5. In an attack, the adversary changed the number 100,00 to 10000. This type of change can be considered an attack against what security aspect? [Security aspects]\par
\par
\b0\i0 This is a matter of modification or fabrication, thus the security aspect compromised is \ul Integrity\ulnone .\par
\par
\b\i 6. Select the security requirements below that are either not realistic or not verifiable. [Security requirements]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A firewall rule that can filter out all harmful traffic is not a realistic security requirement, it is neither verifiable. \par
\par
\b\i 7. Pfleeger, Pfleeger, and Margulies (2015) desribes a number of types of malicious code. Match the type of\par
malicious code with the corresponding description. [Malicious code]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A \ul spyware\ulnone  is a progarm that intercepts and covertly communicates data on the user or the user's activity. \par
\par
\ul Virus\ulnone  is code that causes malicious behavior and propagates copies of itself to other programs.\par
\par
A \ul rootkit\ulnone  is code that is installed in the most provalege section of an operating system. \par
\par
\b\i 8. What is meant by residual risk? [Risk]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A residual risk is \ul a risk that remains uncovered by security controls\ulnone .\par
\par
\b\i 9.  Which of the following sentences describe the term asset best from an information security perspective? [Assets]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Assets are \ul anything that has value to an organization.\par
\par
\ulnone\b\i 10. Where in the information security model is the information security policy placed? [Information security model]\par
\par
\b0\i0 External formal administrative security. \par
\par
\b\i 11. Access control is an essential aspect of information security. An operating system often manages the access control. Access control is often described using the terms: [Access control]\par
\par
\ul\b0\i0 Subjects\ulnone  are the entities than can access objects (often human user). \par
\par
\ul Objects\ulnone  are things on which an action can be performed such as, e.g., files, programs and hardware devices. \par
\par
There are many models for how to implement access control in practice, and one example is \ul Role-based \ulnone access controls. \par
\par
\b\i 12. Which alternative would provide the best countermeasure against an off-line brute-force attack on a password hash? [Passwords]\par
\par
\b0\i0 The best contermeasure against an offline brute-force attacks on a password hash is \ul to use a long password\ulnone . \par
\par
\b\i 13. How would you define information security? You could use existing definitions or your own definition, as long as it aligns with common definitions. [Information security definition]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Information Security is the practice of dealing with security vulnerabilities which can be exploited by a threat causing harm. A threat can be dealt with in many ways, you can for example mitigate, deter, reflect and control a threat. A threat can cause harm of the aspects confidentiality, integrity, availability, authentication and non-repudability and more. A security control can be e.g. preventive and proactive. When managing information security one must have risks in considerations. A risk can be defined as the impact times the likelyhood. \b\i\par
\par
14. Imagine that you have been appointed responsible for the implementation of information security in an\par
organization. Provide three key factors you deem necessary in order to succeed with such a task. [ISMS Implementation]\par
\par
\b0\i0 An information security plan should include 7 important points: a detailed description of the current state (situation), responsible persons, time table, recommended new controls, project annual savings, policy and maintenance plan. \par
\par
A business continuity plan: To deal with longer loss of service. A business continuity plan is divded into catastrophic consequences and long duration consequence and shall state solution to have a business can keep running in more extreme circumstances. \par
\par
An incident response plan: An incident response plan constitutes what an incident is, who is responsible for solving / handling it and a detailed description of how to control it. \par
\par
As part of the above plans I would also need the risk assessment process including risk identification, risk analysis and risk addressing. Risk analysis is about identifying assets, finding vulnerability, estimating the likelyhood of exploitation. Risk is an important measure when dealing with security because all available controls may not be implemented due to cost, priotity and recoverage. \par
\par
In short, the underlying key-factors would be trust from the business management team, budget reserved for security management and a team with a variety of skills and knowledges. \b\i\par
\par
15. Describe the concepts: Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). Also,\par
differentiate the concepts. [IDS & IPS]\par
\par
\b0\i0 An Intrusion Detection System is a proactive security control to monitor traffic in a network or system. If the system is network-based it is called a NISD, is it is host-based it is called a HIDS. An IDS can also be placed internally (within a system) and externally (at the entry of the system). If it is placed externally, it monitors all incoming traffic. If it is placed internally it monitors traffic only within the system. An intrusion detection system is always placed such that it cannot be circumvented and is analgous to a smoke detector ina house which detects and alarms. However, an IDS can be configured to call a human in case of a triggered event. An IDS can either be implemented based on patterns (signature-based) or based on hueristics (anamoly-based). For example an NIDS is often implemented using 2 interfaces, one interface just for monitoring and one isolated to an alarm or other configurations separate to the actual network. This way it is invisible to attackers and it is hard to disable it, like a perfectly setup wiretap.\par
If an IDS has the ability to go into protection mode, trying to neutralize or isolate an intrudor and constrain its access control, the IDS is also a Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). An IPS can be configured to automatically add hosts to adjust loads, tune, blacklist or restrict traffic to the network. A normal case may also be to alarm a human which is capable of determining how to proceed with a specific event. \b\i\par
\par
16. Explain the difference between stream cipher and block cipher. Also, give an example when each type of\par
cipher could be used. [Encryption]\par
\b0\i0\par
Stream and block cipher are a techniques applied to different crypto system applications. Stream cipher is when encryption is done on individual bits or bytes. An advantage with stream cipher is that when a bit or byte is ready to be transmitted, it can directly be encrypted. Thus one can faster encrypt data on-demand. This technique is often used in streaming of data that must be encrypted since all bits may not arrive simultaniously. A advantage of stream cipher is also that it does not propagate errors since it is applied individually. So in case of an error, the whole block or sequence is destroyed, just the bit / byte. A disadvatage with stream cipher is that the process of encryption \b\i\par
\par
17. Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) is a common type of network attack. Give one applied example of a MITM. [MitM]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Alice is sending a mail to Bob asking for his encryption key. \par
\par
Mary intercepts the message and resends the message to Bob (impersonates Alice). \par
\par
Bob send his encryption key to Alice (through Mary). \par
\par
Before Mary forwards the mail to Alice, She replaces the encryption key with her own key. \par
\par
Alice recieves the message and uses the given encryption to encrypt her secret message to Bob, and send it (again to Mary). \par
\par
Mary recieves the message and can decrypt the message, read the message, modify it, and encrypt it with bob's encryption key before sending it to Bob. \par
\par
Bob recieves the message which he think is secret and reads the message from Alice. Both Alice and Bob may think that it is a secure communication. \par
\par
A Man-in-the-Middle attack requires some kind of eavesdropping / wiretapping / sniffing. A program may be installed in an OS, program, browser, website, physically on the network or on the computer. or in network software. If a VPN and unsecure protocols are used, once the sniffer is installed it is just for the attacker to wait for the right opportunity if they have the knowledge of how to gather information and reuse it. For example a replay attack can be performed as a result of a MitM exploit. This is when information in e.g. website session is recorded and replayed to use a victims authentication data to authenticate against a website or a server. A MitM-attack can be countered using key exchange protocols (Diffie-Hellman), 2-factor authentication with out-of-band communication or encryption authentication, or VPN. \b\i\par
\par
18. Explain the concept of session hijacking by giving an example of such an attack. [Session hijacking]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A session is a state where a user often has been authenticated and can use the system somehow. This data can be stored locally through localstorage or cookies or in a server. If strong algorithms and protocols are not used, a session may be prone to session hijacking. This is when an attacker extracts e.g. user credentials from a cookie to authenticate themselves. The attacker must be eavesdropping on the vicitim, e.g. by using a sniffer. \b\i\par
\i0\par
\i 19. What are the disadvantages of penetration testing? [Penentration testing]\par
\b0\par
\i0 Penentration testing if often performed as a final testing step. The testing itself may be expensive and also the cases of penentration is often very expensive to repair. Penetration testing may also be performed by a lot of different users and all successes may not be reported to the software owners. The idea of penentration testing is to mimic an attacker (hacker), thus performing penetration testing may come at a cost since a penentratin may lead to harm to system, data and users. One must trust the penentration tester. if a pentester is not employing realistic test conditions, the result may be misleading. \par
\b\i\par
20. Authentication mechanisms can be divided into three categories. Describe these three categories. [Authentication]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Authentication involves mechanisms which the user known, has and is. Examples of mechanisms that a user knows are passwords and secret questions. Passwords may still be the most common authentication mechanism but it requuires a user to choose a secure password and to remember that. \par
Examples of what the user has are passive (keys CVC code), active (Credit card, buss card [balance]), static or dynamic tokens (FIdM, Google & Microsoft Auth). \b\i\par
\par
21. Define the terms: vulnerability, threat, and security controls. Also, relate the terms to each other by giving an applied example. [Information security terms]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Vulnerability is a set of conditions that may be exploited by an attacker (using a threat) to cause harm. A vulnerability may be seen as a weakness, fault or bug in the system that an attacker can use for their advantage. A vulnerability may also be a lack of security control. \par
\par
A threat is state which potantially can cause harm or negative impact to a system. \par
\par
harm is the set of circumstances that can be caused by a threat. \par
\par
An analogy to relate the concepts: \par
If we have a pool of water with inside a house with a water-sensitive floor. The fact that water might leak out is a threat. The fact that water is leaking out and damaging the floor is the harm. The fact that there is a crack in the pool wall that might be exploited is a vulnerability. Examples of security controls could be a strip of ducktape put onto the vulnerability to close it. \b\i\par
\par
22. Suggest and describe a technique by which a browser could detect and block clickjacking attacks. [Clickjacking]\par
\par
\b0\i0 A browser can detect and block hijacking attacks by using tight access control and tamper detection. Clickjacking uses the the iframe to be manipulate views in websites. For exampel we can avoid this by providing user training (don't go into suspect websites and do not confirm any suspect requests or links). A browser should follow the least privalage policy and if something is downloaded, the user should be able to confirm in the OS and not throught the website. There is also a responsibility at the website provider to keep good, clean and corret code. \b\i\par
\par
23. Give an example of the use of temporal separation for security in a computing environment. Also discuss the advantages and disadvantages of such an approach. [Temporal separation]\par
\par
\b0\i0 Temporal separation is the simple practice of separating e.g. operations or instruction by time. We do not execute specific types of instructions with each other because they may be of different privalege or different error prone etc. Advantages is that we get a fail-safe separation we recive a type of physical separation. Disadvatanges are that it may require extra time overheap to group certain operations and instrucitons. \b\i\par
\par
24. Why should the directory of one user not be generally accessible to other users (not even for read-only access)? [OS Security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 The default state should always be to separate and isolate modules, users and objects through implementation. A directory may contain confidential information and should not be readable by default. This is a matter of least privalage and permission based policy. When it comes to sharing, instead we should provide sharing instead of by default implement it. Sharing result in streams of information which is less secure. \b\i\par
\par
25. File access control relates largely to confidentiality. What is the relationship between an access control matrix and the integrity of the objects to which access is being controlled? [OS security]\par
\par
\b0\i0 The access control matrix, the access control list, the privalage list or the capability tickets are solutions to access control data structure implementations. These structures determines what objects and what operations a subject may perform that object. What type of operations that are allowed is determined by the access control field (read, write, delete, share etc.). The integrity of object is highly dependent on who can access it and what those subjects can do to it.  We may want to keep a file completely private, and thus it should not be readable, writable at all by any other user than ourselves. \par
\par
\b\i 26. Operating System Design 8 Principles\par
\b0\i0 Least Privalege\par
Separation of Privalege\par
Least common mechanism\par
Economy of mechanism\par
Complete mediation\par
Open design\par
Ease of use\par
\par
\b\i\par
}
 